<appendix id="debuglog">
<title>The Debug Dialog</title>
<para>
The &kst; debug dialog can sometimes provide useful information about certain
problems encountered, and contains all notices, warnings, and errors logged by
&kst;.  To access the debug dialog, select <guimenuitem>Debug Kst...</guimenuitem>
from the <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu.
</para>

<sect1 id="debuglog-debuglog">
<title>The Debug Log</title>
<para>
The debug log is located on the <guilabel>Log</guilabel> tab of the debug dialog.
The following lists the different messages that can appear in the log, with
brief explanations and suggested actions (where appropriate).
</para>

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="4">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Type</entry>
<entry>Message</entry>
<entry>Explanation/Suggested Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Kst Extension %1 loaded</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Error trying to load Kst extension %1.  Code=%2, \"%3\"</entry>
<entry>Make sure extension exists, meets the requirements for a &kst; extension,
and is in the correct location.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Unable to find required vector [%1] for data object %2.</entry>
<entry>Ensure the indicated vector exists in the Data Manager.
  If so, try recreating the data object.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Unable to find required scalar [%1] for data object %2.</entry>
<entry>Ensure that the indicated scalar exists (try searching in
<guimenuitem>View Scalars</guimenuitem> of the <guimenu>Data</guimenu> menu.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Error loading data-source plugin [%1]: %2</entry>
<entry>A datasource reader (&kde; plugin) could not be loaded.
Make sure the data-source reader meets requirements described in
<link linkend="supportingadditionalfileformatscreatingdatasource">Creating Datasource Readers</link>
and is compiled correctly.
If it is a built-in datasource reader, try recompiling and installing it again from the source package.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Scanning for data-source plugins.</entry>
<entry>&kst; is scanning for datasource readers. No action required.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>No data in file %1</entry>
<entry>Make sure file is supported by one of the datasource readers, and that the data is
formatted correctly and is not corrupt.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Unsupported element '%1' in file %2</entry>
<entry>Ensure that the file is not corrupt, and meets the specifications for the
file format.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Unable to find X vector for %2: [%1]</entry>
<entry>???</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Unable to find Y vector for %2: [%1]</entry>
<entry>???</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Undefined justification %1 in label \"%2\"</entry>
<entry>This should not happen.  Most likely it is the result of a bug.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Internal error: No X scale type checked in %1.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Internal error: No Y scale type checked in %1.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Unable to load plugin %1 for \"%2\"</entry>
<entry>Make sure that the plugin meets the requirements described in
<link linkend="creatingplugins">Creating Additional Plugins</link>.  In particular,
make sure the shared object and <filename>*.xml</filename> file are in the same directory.
If the plugin is a built-in plugin, try re-installing the plugin from the source
package.
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Input vector [%1] for plugin %2 not found.  Unable to continue.</entry>
<entry>Ensure that the <filename>*.xml</filename> file for the plugin
specifies all the inputs correctly and in the correct order.  Check the source
code for the shared object to ensure that it is using the correct arrays from the
input array.  Also ensure that
the specified input vector still exists (check in the Data Manager).</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Output vector [%1] for plugin %2 not found.  Unable to continue.</entry>
<entry>Ensure that the <filename>*.xml</filename> file for the plugin
specifies all the outputs correctly and in the correct order. Check the source
code for the shared object to ensure that it is outputting the correct arrays
in the output array. </entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Data file for vector %1 was not opened.</entry>
<entry>???</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Error parsing XML file '%1'; skipping.</entry>
<entry>Check the XML file to make sure it has correct syntax and form for the
intended use.  If is an XML file for a plugin, check
<link linkend="creatingplugins">Creating Additional Plugins</link>
for more information.
</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Detected disappearance of '%1'.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Could not parse xml file '%1'.</entry>
<entry>Check the XML file to make sure it has correct syntax and form for the
intended use.  If is an XML file for a plugin, check
<link linkend="creatingplugins">Creating Additional Plugins</link>
for more information.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Could not find library '%1' while loading plugin.</entry>
<entry>Make sure the library exists and is in the correct location. If this is a built-in plugin,
try recompiling and installing the plugin again.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>Could not find symbol '%1' in plugin %2.</entry>
<entry>A required C symbol could not be found in the plugin.
Make sure the plugin meets the requirements described in
<link linkend="creatingplugins">Creating Additional Plugins</link>.  If this is a built-in plugin,
try recompiling and re-installing the plugin.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Unknown</entry>
<entry>The %1 font was not found and was replaced by the %2 font; as a
result, some labels may not display correctly."</entry>
<entry>If this causes problems, install the missing font.</entry>
</row>



</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

</sect1>
</appendix>


<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "appendix")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
