<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>
<para>
The following sections contain detailed instructions for obtaining, compiling, and installing &kst;
along with any optional libraries or packages.  If you use a package management system, you may use
it to install &kst; instead.
</para>


<sect1 id="obtainingkst">
<title>Obtaining &kst;</title>
<para>
&kst; is part of the kdeextragear-2 module of &kde;.  You can also download the latest version
separately from the &kst; <ulink url="http://omega.astro.utoronto.ca/kst/">website
</ulink>.  If you wish to download &kst; from CVS, it is available via anonymous CVS for &kde;
or via the &kde;
<ulink url="http://kdewebcvs.pandmservices.com/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/">WebCVS</ulink> repository.

</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="installingfromsource">
<title>Installing &kst; from Source</title>
<para>
The following sections detail how to compile and install &kst; from source code.
</para>

<sect2 id="installingrequirements">
<title>Requirements</title>
<para>
&kst; v1.2.0 requires the &kde; 3.1 libraries and &Qt; 3.1.  Almost all major &Linux; distributions have packages
for &kde; and &Qt;.  Since &Qt; is a dependency of &kde;, having the required version of &kde; should
be sufficient.  It is recommended that you refer to your particular distribution's documentation for
&kde; library installation.    Note that the entire &kde; desktop environment
is not required&mdash;in most cases, look for packages called <filename>kdebase-*</filename> and
<filename>kdelibs-*</filename>.  Alternatively, more information is available on the &kde;
<ulink url="http://www.kde.org/download/">website</ulink>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="optionallibrariesandpackages">
<title>Optional Libraries and Packages</title>
<para>The following libraries and packages are optional, but provide full plugin and data source functionality
in &kst; if installed.  The installation instructions assume you have root access on your system.</para>
<note>
<para>
You may already have some or all of these libraries and packages installed, in which case there is no
need to reinstall them.  Also, check first to see if pre-compiled binaries for the libraries and packages
exist in your distribution's package management system, as it may be easier to install the binary packages.
</para>
</note>

<sect3 id="gslrequirement">
<title>&GNU; Scientific Library (GSL)</title>
<para>
The &GNU; Scientific Library provides a variety of mathematical operations for the built-in
&kst; plugins.  Having GSL installed enables a variety of plugins such as linear and non-linear fitting,
 correlation, and interpolation plugins.  The library can be found at <ulink url="ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gsl/">ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gsl/</ulink>.
Alternatively, you can find GSL under <filename>/gnu/gsl</filename> on the mirrors listed at
<ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/prep/ftp.html">http://www.gnu.org/prep/ftp.html</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
Download <filename>gsl-<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</filename>, where <replaceable>version</replaceable> is the greatest version number found in the directory.
</para>

<para>
Then unzip and untar the file:
</para>
<screen><userinput><command>tar -zxvf gsl-<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</command></userinput></screen>
<para>
replacing <replaceable>version</replaceable> with the version number of the downloaded file.
</para>
<para>
Read the <filename>INSTALL</filename> file in the resultant directory for detailed installation instructions.
For most systems, the following will work:
<screen><userinput><command>cd gsl-<replaceable>version</replaceable></command>
<command>./configure</command>
<command>make</command>
<command>make install</command></userinput></screen>
</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="fitsiorequirement">
<title>CFITSIO</title>
<para>
The CFITSIO library provides support for reading and writing to the FITS (Flexible Image Transport System) data
format.  The libary can be found at
<ulink url="ftp://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/software/fitsio/c/">ftp://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/software/fitsio/c/</ulink>.
You only need to install the library if you anticipate reading or writing to the FITS file format.
</para>

<para>
Download <filename>cfitsio<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</filename>, where <replaceable>version</replaceable> is the greatest version number found the directory.
</para>

<para>
Then unzip and untar the file:
<screen><userinput><command>tar -zxvf cfitsio<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</command></userinput></screen>
replacing <replaceable>version</replaceable> with the version number of the downloaded file.
</para>

<para>
Read the <filename>README</filename> file in the resultant directory for installation instructions.  For most
systems, the following will work:
<screen><userinput><command>cd cfitsio</command>
<command>./configure --prefix=/usr</command>
<command>make</command>
<command>make install</command></userinput></screen>
</para>

<para>
You may need to change the directory specified for the <option>--prefix</option> option, but the most
common directory is <filename>/usr</filename>
</para>
</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="compilingandinstalling">
<title>Compiling and Installing</title>
<para>
Once all of the prerequisites have been met on your system you can compile and install &kst;.  It
is assumed that you have already downloaded the &kst; source package.  If not, please see
<link linkend="obtainingkst">Obtaining &kst;</link>.
</para>

<para>
The simplest way to install &kst; is:
<screen><userinput><command>tar -zxvf kst-<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</command>
<command>cd kst-<replaceable>version</replaceable></command>
<command>./configure --prefix=`kde-config --prefix`</command>
<command>make</command>
<command>make install</command></userinput></screen>
replacing <replaceable>version</replaceable> with the version of &kst; you have.
</para>
<important>
<para>Note that <command>kde-config --prefix</command> is surrounded by backquotes.  It is very
important that the <command>kde-config</command> utility returns the correct path (most likely
<filename>/usr</filename>), otherwise &kst; will <emphasis>not</emphasis> install properly.
You can double-check by running it directly:
<screen><userinput><command>kde-config --prefix</command></userinput></screen>
Ensure that a non-null path is displayed.
</para>
</important>

<para>
You can read through the messages displayed by the <command>configure</command> script&mdash;if it
reports any missing libraries (such as GSL) that should not be missing, please go back and ensure
that the libraries and header files have been correctly installed in the appropriate locations.
</para>



</sect2>



</sect1>

</appendix>


<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: xml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:true
sgml-parent-document:("index.docbook" "book" "appendix")
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
